hello Zack here from PC industries we
get a lot of calls every day if people
want to know where to find their model
and serial number on different engines
we've done some videos and fast and we
want to show you today where to find
your serial number for a 53 Series
inline engine where you're going to find
that serial number is on the right-hand
side of the engine and just as with
every other detroit diesel engine 2
cycle you designate the right and left
hand side of the engine by standing at
the rear of the flywheel housing and the
serial number is located on the back
right hand top side of the block the
bottom number will be stamped first and
then generally the serial number and
we'll zoom in and get a close-up shot
for this and we'll explain to you what
the numbers mean
alright we're zoomed in here where you
can see everything good we're looking at
the model number that's the first four
digits or the first eight digits at the
top of the block there 5 0 4 3 - 8 3 0 1
the 5 tells us that it's a 53 series
engine the 53 series engine has both
inline and V configurations but all of
the 53 series engines will start with a
unlike inline 71 series engines which
will start with a 1 or V 71 series
engines which may start with a 7 the 53
series will only start with a 5 the next
two digits zero four tell us that it is
a four-cylinder engine the fourth digit
tells us number 3 tells us that it's an
industrial application the fifth digit
being an 8 tells us that it's an RD
configuration a right hand rotation
engine with everything mounted on the
right hand side respectively the 3
indicates that it's a turbocharged
engine and the zero 1 tells us what side
the starter configuration is in
reference to the flywheel housing the
bottom row of numbers and digits their
4d - 2 3 0 1 3 3 is the engine serial
number and all of the inline and V set V
53 engines will have either a 2d 4 to 53
3d for 353 for D for 453 all of those
which are in lined or a 6d or an 8d
which would be a 6v or an 8b 53 those
serial number locations will actually be
in a different place and we'll do a
video later to show you what that
location is those last six digits there
will tell you how the engine it was
built up and that's important to give to
your parts technician but it's also
important to remember that there is a
chance that this engine may have been
rebuilt over the years and that someone
may have made a change sometimes those
changes if they make them and they don't
change the serial number it'll cause us
to build this where we might ship you
the wrong part so it's always good to
give that engine serial number to find
the description of the engine of where
your blower and your exhaust are mounted
maybe even take a couple pictures to
send to the parts technician so we can
give you the correct parts the first
time we appreciate your time thank you